
We'd like to build a new partnership (company) for massive production of the Ethiopian white honey.
Our focus is the white honey.
Massive production means 10000 hives and more.

The following is a list of basic principles we are offering for the partnership.
We have detailed business plans, but for we suggest keep the numbers out 
and focus on the basic idea of the partnership.

partnership:
Daniel will be responsible for sales and distribution of the honey.
Daniel will contribute his factory for collecting and packing the honey for distribution.
The partnership will be an extra business, not related to his current business:
Daniel will remain the one and only owner of all the factory and the equipment he has today
Daniel will continue to run his own buisness of distributing the honey being collected from current farmers.

Tamir & Barak will be resoponsible for the massive production of the honey, 
both for the professional knowledge and for the actual production!
Tamir has the knowledge & technology of optimizing the amount of honey produced per hive in a significant rate.

Tamir will hold 2/3 of the partnership, Daniel will hold 1/3.
We will invest money relative to our holding share.
For 100,000$ initial investment, Tamir & Barak will invest 67,000$, Daniel 33000$.

By the first money investment, we will purchase around 1000 hives.
To keep it simple now, assume worst case forecasts of just 10$/kg and 25Kg per hive/year.

By the first year, all the money earned out of these hives (~250,000$ income), will be used to:
 
1) purchase more 1000 hives
2) pay Tamir and Daniel a minimum salary and flights

On the second year, all money earned from the 2000 hives (~500,000$ income), will be used to:
1) purchase more 2000-3000 hives
2) pay Tamir and Daniel some higher salaries

Only on the third year, where money is earned out of 5000 hives (~1,250,000$ income), then it will be used to:
1) purchase more hives
2) pay Tamir and Daniel salaries
3) pay Dividends

We will define together the sever conditions in which the patnership might end.
We believe that honest and trust are very important for the partnership.
In case of honest or trust issues, one can loose his shares in the company.

If we agree on the idea, we will consider a business trip to Ethiopia
to meet and check many issues on ground.

Only then, we can move forward and discuss the details of any aggreement.

Please let us know if you like to proceed

Best Regards,
Tamir & Barak.    

