Benny:

Is linux RT? Is kernel preemtive? p. 62
-----------------------------------------

non preempive till 2.6. it means that a thread running in kernel mode will run to completion
even it's timelice is expired. It will release the CPU only if done or it is going to sleep voluntarely by its own code, not by the scheduler.
it can cause higher priority threads to starve the current and lower thread keep calling sys calls and stay in kernel mode.
(priority inversion)
Since 2.6 the kernel is preemptive, the scheduler can preemt the current thread with another thread even it is running.
it makes more sync issues to handle.

It is RT becuase RT threads are always scheduled before normal threads but it not hard RT.
hard RT means deterministic - tasks must run in predefined deadlines. 
(it makes interrupt and context switch more strict)

RTLinux is hard RT.

talk about kernel stacks on behalf of the user processes.

draw interrupt vectors:
only one line goes from IPC to CPU? masking one irq or disabling all of them
is done on the CPU register ?

void disable_irq(unsigned int irq); 
void disable_irq_nosync(unsigned int irq); 
The first two functions disable a given interrupt line in the interrupt controller

draw mmu, TLBs

dma - what does it mean non cachable?

kernel - draw sync table

make sure: how user space and kernel space are enforced

make sure: are priorities dynamically changed in CFS ?
I know that RT priorities are static, and that CFS is working on vtime
balancing...

copy_from_user() copy_to_user() can block. can the kernel block ?
all system calls are like interrupt handlers, how can we block?
answer:
kernel implement the system call, upon blocking will call sched() to resume
the next process

robert love:
interrupt handlers cannot sleep and thus are much more limited in what they can do than system 
calls running in process context.
system calls running always in the kernel context, isn't it?

asmlinkage

is linux kernel a process ?
Linux kernel can't be considered as a process, because this is one of its responsibilities to manage processes.
You can consider kernel as a big interrupt handler. After the kernel grants processor to the thread, 
the only way to get control back are interrupts (or system calls, which are also interrupts).

it has no pid, it is not running in the user space,
it doesn't have a task_struct, it cannot be swapped out of memory, 
it has no entry in process table, it is not scheduled by the kernel scheduler

but:
it has threads running (with task_structs)
it can be preempted


cpu expert:
sys call instuction 0x80
stacks allocation
cache
mmu
address bus / data bus - 32 / 64 bits

Spin locks:
------------
A spin lock is a lock that can be held by at most one thread of execution. 
If a thread of execution attempts to acquire a spin lock while it is already held, which is called 
contended, the thread busy loops spins—waiting for the lock to become available. If the lock is not contended, the thread 
can immediately acquire the lock and continue.

1. the lock is held only by one owner - the locking thread. (like mutex)
2. atomicity - preemption is disabled.
3. since preemption is disabled for atomicity we should not sleep in the critical region, not to break atomicity.
4. if preemption is disabled, spinning is not an issue. it is an issue just for other processors.
5. the blocking thread is not going to sleep like in other locks (not going to waiting queue), 
it is busy waiting (active in ready queue).
Since preemption is disabled, the blocking thread is not going to run out of the ready Q.
If premmption was enabled, it would spend cpu time by going back and forth the ready Q for busy waiting
till the lock is released.
6. since no other thread can run, and since another processor might spin, we must not go to sleep and unlcock
as soon as possible.

in preemptive mode - even busy waiting thread can be preempted by the kernel.
but since interrupts are out of the scheduling context, they can spin forever.

spinlocks makes the critical region atomic, preemption is disabled - the locking thread will not be preemted.
1. if needed, we have to disable interrupts ourselves.
2. we must NOT go to sleep nor relinquish the cpu.


If preemption was enabled, or if the locking thread would go to sleep or release cpu and some other thread will take in, 
the blocking thread will spin for long time (sharing the cpu with all tasks that ready to run in the ready q), 
till the locking thread will get cpu again and unlock.

Alternative to spin lock, is to enable preemption and put the blocking thread to sleep.
meaning impmplementing 2 context switches - 
-schedule another thread in
-schedulte the blockig thread in when lock is released.
this is an overhead related to to just spin lock implementation.
so we should try unlock asap, otherwise it is not worth to spin, but to make the alternative of 
context switch.

Benny:
The kernel must ensure that right after the spinlock is unlocked, the blocking thread is locking and gets into
the critical region before preemption is enabled, otherwise it might spin for a long time.
So the kernel should make all spinning threads run before enable preemption.

if the spin lock is required also by interrupt handler, we must disable interrupts when locking, to ensure handler will
not spin forever.

spinlock was initially inteneded for multiple processors:
if one locks, the other will never get in.


using spin_lock_irqsave to avoid interrupt handlers to be called and start spining.
but in the interrupt handler itself - why to use it and not reular spin_lock? maybe to avoid other interrupt handlers...

spin locks and bottom halves:
softirq, tasklets cannot preempt a running softirq/tasklet on the same processor,
so if data shared between bottom-halves, no need to disable bh, but to use regular spinlock.
